Payload control allocation docs (#1944)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/peripherals/camera.md

# Camera Trigger & Capture

PX4 can map outputs to trigger a camera.

Cameras can also (optionally) signal PX4 at the exact moment that a photo/frame is taken using a camera capture pin.
This allows more precise mapping of images to GPS position for geotagging, or the right IMU sample for VIO synchronization, etc.

Whenever a camera is triggered, the MAVLink [CAMERA_TRIGGER](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#CAMERA_TRIGGER) message is published containing a sequence number (i.e. the current session's image sequence number) and the corresponding timestamp.
This timestamp can be used for several applications, including: timestamping photos for aerial surveying and reconstruction, synchronising a multi-camera system or visual-inertial navigation.

## Trigger Configuration

Camera triggering is usually configured from the *QGroundControl* [Vehicle Setup > Camera](https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/en/SetupView/Camera.html#px4-camera-setup) section. 

> ![Trigger pins](../../assets/camera/trigger_pins.png) 

Author: FMI did you tidy up the UI here for when control allocation is used? Specifically, I would expect the hardware settings to disappear (I can't test)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5368500/179888530-334b8cfd-90d6-4c95-b623-66f3502fd156.png)

Reviewer: Good point, no I did not look at that.

Author: OK, leaving that with you. If you fix create a PR or issue for this can you ping me so I can add it as a comment?

At time of writing triggering only works on FMU pins - you can't trigger a camera using pins on the I/O board.
:::

> :::warning

Author: So there is all this old stuff which said you had to use certain outputs for triggering, and that some combinations disabled other pins.
1. Is that all still true when using mixers?>
2. With control allocation, how does this work? I.e. is it still 2 pins you set? 
3. What do we say for camera capture?

Reviewer: 1. yes for mixers
2. yes for the ones that require 2 pins, you need to assign camera triggering to 2 outputs. Then for the ones that use PWM (e.g. Seagull MAP2), the whole PWM group cannot be used for anything else, you can only have camera triggering in that group.
3. you can also assign any of the outputs

Author: > Then for the ones that use PWM (e.g. Seagull MAP2), 

> you can also assign any of the outputs

Don't they all have to use PWM? 

I base this on the yaml which says FMU only https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/src/lib/mixer_module/output_functions.yaml#L40-L52

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5368500/179885097-297301f5-b196-4b3a-8886-5414c8c8a640.png)

Reviewer: They use the PWM Pins, but not necessarily PWM signal. For some it's just a GPIO signal that's toggled.

Author: @bkueng Thanks. I think I have cleaned this up now. You OK for me to merge?

Any other combination of pins can be selected, but this will disable use of the other FMU pins as outputs.
:::

### Trigger Setup using Control Allocation

When _dynamic control allocation_ is enabled ([SYS_CTRL_ALLOC=1](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SYS_CTRL_ALLOC)) camera trigger pins can be set on any FMU outputs.
This is done on the *QGroundControl* [Actuators](../config/actuators.md) configuration screen by assigning the `Camera_Trigger` function on any FMU output.

> If using a PWM output that requires two pins (e.g. Seagull MAP2) you can assign to any two outputs.

Author: ```suggestion
If using trigger setup that requires two pins (e.g. Seagull MAP2) you can assign to any two outputs.
```

If camera capture is configured, the timestamp from the camera capture driver is used, otherwise the triggering timestamp.
:::

Camera capture/feedback is enabled in PX4 by setting [CAM_CAP_FBACK = 1](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAM_CAP_FBACK).

If mixers are used, then the capture pin used depends on the hardware:
- Pixhawk FMUv5x boards use the board-specific camera capture pin (PI0).
- Other board use FMU PWM pin 6 (hardcoded) for camera capture.

> If _dynamic control allocation_ is enabled ([SYS_CTRL_ALLOC=1](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SYS_CTRL_ALLOC)) the camera capture pin can be set on any FMU output.

Author: ```suggestion
If _dynamic control allocation_ is enabled ([SYS_CTRL_ALLOC=1](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SYS_CTRL_ALLOC)) the camera capture pin can be set on any FMU output pin.
```
